Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an action, adventure,
fantasy film called “Chaos Walking.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Humanity has expanded to the stars and found
a new planet called New World.
Upon arrival on the strange planet, a phenomenon
occurred where all the men’s inner thoughts
become audible and, in some cases, visual.
They dubbed this unusual phenomenon “the
noise.”
Todd is a young adult living in Prentisstown,
believed to be the only surviving human settlement
on the planet.
He was born on the planet after his parents
joined an expedition to colonize the New World
several decades ago.
He walks through the woods with his dog Manchee
when he comes across the village preacher,
Aaron.
Todd tries hiding his Noise from Aaron, trying
not to think about sins he may have committed.
Aaron commands Todd to show his Noise, but
Todd refuses.
Aaron then hits him across the face and declares
hiding noise is akin to being a woman.
Todd answers he wouldn't know as all the women
had died when he was still an infant.
Todd heads to town, where the mayor's son,
Davy, belittles him, calling him a misfit
orphan.
Then, Todd manifests a snake with his Noise,
causing Davy to fall off his horse.
But, before they could fight, The mayor, David,
arrives.
Todd tries hiding his Noise, only thinking
about his name, and David commends the control
he has over his Noise, saying Davy could learn
from Todd.
Todd then heads home to his adopted family
Cillian and Ben, two farmers living together.
They all share a meal, and Todd tells them
how he feels a connection with the mayor.
In outer space, a vessel enters the planet's
atmosphere.
The astronauts discuss the first wave of settlers
and wonder if they've survived since they
haven't established any contact with them.
As they enter the planet's atmosphere, the
Noise takes effect, and the men start panicking.
A fault occurs, and the vessel begins barrelling
through the sky in a ball of fire.
The following day, Todd spots a stranger stealing
from their barn.
He and Manchee run after the stranger, but
the thief is too fast.
He follows the thief and ends up at the spaceship's
crash site.
He spots several graves on the ground and
hurries back to town to inform the mayor.
Todd then leads the townsfolk to the crash
site and tells the mayor there could be a
survivor, the thief.
Todd says he didn't get a good look at the
thief, adding that the thief didn't have Noise.
David then orders the men to find the woman
survivor.
Todd is shocked to hear David say it is a
woman who had survived as he's never seen
a woman in his whole life.
Todd explores further and finds the woman
hiding.
He tries to calm the girl down, but his Noise
reveals his desire to call others.
The woman runs, and the men chase after her.
David manages to capture her after he manifests
a fence with his Noise, tricking the woman.
They take the woman to town, where David tells
her what has happened to them since they arrived
on the planet.
He explains the Noise only affects men.
The girl asks where the women are, and David
tells her all the women had died at the hands
of the planet's local inhabitants, the Spackle.
A war had broken out between the settlers
and the Spackle, which ended in all the women
dying.
The woman then tells David that she and the
rest of the dead astronauts were part of a
scouting expedition preparing for the second
wave of settlers’ arrival.
David appears excited, asking when and where
the ship would land, but the woman is hesitant
to answer.
David decides to talk to the rest of the townsfolk
and leaves Davy to guard the girl.
Davy can’t resist disturbing the girl as
he, too, has never seen a woman in his whole
life.
He starts looking through the girl’s bag,
and the girl tries to stop him, but he fishes
out a gadget that lights up and starts shooting
out lasers.
David runs back to find that the girl had
escaped.
The woman crawls under one of the houses and
hears Aaron and David talking.
David plans to take control of the ship, ambushing
it upon arrival, and Aaron says the woman
is an angel sent from God to purify them of
their sins.
The rest of the men then mobilize, beginning
a search for the girl.
Todd enters the room where the girl had been
and takes the girl’s belongings.
He returns to the farm, eager to begin looking
through the girl’s bag to look for gadgets,
but Manchee starts barking.
Todd discovers the woman hiding in their barn
and contemplates turning her in but decides
against it.
He heads back out when a man on horseback
arrives, searching for the girl.
He notices Todd trying to hide his thoughts
and surmises the girl must be nearby.
He then leaves.
Ben and Cillian immediately understand why
Todd is trying to hide his Noise and enter
the barn.
They see the girl and assure her they won't
harm her.
They head outside and talk to Todd about what
they intend to do with the girl.
Todd says they can't surrender her to the
mayor, and Ben and Cillian agree to help Todd
and the girl escape.
Todd doesn't know where to go as he knows
Prentisstown to be the only living settlement
in the New World, but Ben reveals another
settlement exists; Farbranch.
Cillian is worried Farbranch wouldn't welcome
them, but Ben says Farbranch would welcome
him if Todd is with the woman.
Todd prepares to leave, and Cillian advises
him not to tell the people in Farbranch that
he's from Prentisstown.
Before they could go, David and the others
arrive.
Meanwhile, the girl is in the barn retrieves
her bag and prepares to escape.
She finds an old motorcycle, fixing it up
with one of her gadgets, and gets it running
again.
Back outside, David demands Todd tell him
where the girl is.
He tries to keep quiet, but his thoughts start
racing, revealing the girl to be in the barn.
As the men open the barn, the girl speeds
out on the motorcycle, and Todd chases after
her.
The rest of the men start shooting, and Cillian
is fatally wounded.
Todd and the girl maintain their course, running
from the pursuers.
They run into a ravine, and both are thrown
off.
Todd’s horse gets injured, and the girl’s
motorcycle is decommissioned.
Todd tells the girl he’s there to help,
promising to take her to Farbranch.
Thinking she’d find a way to communicate
with the incoming ship and warn them of the
ambush, the girl agrees to go with Todd.
They start making their way towards Farbranch,
and Manchee, the dog, catches up to them.
Ben cradles a dying Cillian back at the farm,
and David forces Ben to reveal where they
had sent Todd.
Unable to control his Noise, Ben shows Todd
is headed for Farbranch.
David then offers Ben a chance to redeem himself,
asking him to help them bring Todd back.
As Cillian dies, he lets out one final thought,
asking Ben to keep Todd safe.
Todd and the girl take a moment to rest and
eat.
Then, Todd catches a creature from a lake
and tries to start a fire.
The girl helps by placing one of her gadgets
near the woodpile, exploding, and providing
a puff of fire igniting the wood.
They resume their journey, and Todd spots
a massive glow of Noise in the distance.
He tells the girl that the Noise is coming
from a band of spackles, the native species
trying to wipe out the humans.
They take a different route, avoiding the
spackles.
Rain starts falling, and they take shelter
under a tree.
Todd spots his mother's journal in his backpack,
placed earlier by Ben.
The girl reveals that her parents died too.
They got sick on the ship during the voyage,
and her grandparents raised her.
The girl and Todd lock eyes before she leans
in for a kiss.
Todd kisses her back, but the girl vanishes
into thin air.
Todd is horrified to see that it was just
his inner thoughts manifesting thanks to the
Noise.
The following morning, the girl tries to wake
Todd up and sees he is dreaming about her,
his dreams manifesting visually, thanks to
the Noise.
Todd is awakened, and the girl tells him her
name is Viola.
They resume walking and reach a cliff overlooking
a spackle village.
Todd pulls Viola and a barking Manchee to
the side, keeping them quiet.
They rush away but run into a lone Spackle
looking for food.
They hide, but a panicked Todd's noise grows
louder.
He tries to quiet his Noise down, but the
spackle sees it.
It pounces on Todd and starts dragging him
away.
Todd breaks free, arming himself with a knife.
He charges the spackle, but it swats him away.
Viola comes face to face with the spackle,
the creature she was told killed all the women
at Prentisstown, but the spackle only looks
at her quizzically.
Todd tackles the spackle down and starts stabbing
it.
Viola screams for Todd to stop, and he pauses.
The spackle breaks loose from Todd and starts
walking away.
Later, Todd says he was only trying to protect
Viola, but Viola noticed that the spackle
didn’t mind her, only attacking Todd.
Todd remembers what the mayor said and what
happened in the town, but Viola doubts it.
They then come up to a clearing and find Farbranch.
They enter Farbranch outskirts, and Todd notices
Farbranch seems to be better than Prentisstown.
They have livestock, a plantation, and mechanized
farming equipment.
Todd is shocked to see there are women in
Farbranch, some much younger than him.
The town mayor, Hildy, meets with them and
Todd is shocked to see a woman.
Todd is later confronted by several men, telling
him men from Prentisstown are, by law, to
be hanged.
Hildy steps in before the situation escalates,
handing Todd his knife back but telling him
she’ll be watching him.
Viola and Todd speak with Hildy, and she tells
them that they no longer have the technology
Viola needs to contact the incoming spaceship.
Viola says she needs to contact the ship because
if they don’t receive a signal from the
planet, they would move on and leave her stranded.
They hear Todd's Noise saying he wishes Viola
to stay on the planet.
Hildy then suggests that they head to Haven,
another settlement, where she hopes they would
find the means to contact the ship.
Todd is surprised to learn that there are
yet more settlements in New World.
Viola says he and Todd would leave in the
morning, and Todd's Noise reveals his desire
to have Viola stay with him instead.
They can hear Viola's voice from Todd's Noise
asking him to kiss her.
Viola is insulted and storms out.
Todd has trouble sleeping and visits Viola,
who’s having the same problem.
Viola sees Todd carrying his mother’s journal,
and she offers to read it for him as he never
learned how to read.
Viola and Todd find out that everything Mayor
David had told him had been a lie through
the journal.
It turns out that the men in Prentisstown
slowly grew hateful of the women due to the
Noise revealing their thoughts.
David and Aaron worked together and started
antagonizing the women in Prentisstown.
Aaron declared that the women have no noise
because they are soulless.
In her last entry, Todd’s mother writes
she will always love him.
Todd realizes it was the men that killed all
the women, not the Spackle.
He storms out, unable to accept that his whole
life had been a lie.
Soon after, the Prentisstown men arrive.
The people of Farbranch prepare for a fight,
but it is clear they are outnumbered and outgunned.
Some of the men lay down their guns, thinking
they would lose if they fought.
Todd returns to Viola and Manchee, and they
try to escape the town discreetly.
Unfortunately, Aaron sees them, and Todd and
Viola get trapped in a barn.
David gets to them and brings out Ben to convince
Todd to surrender the girl.
Ben enters and reunites with Todd.
Todd tells him he knows the truth about what
happened to the women in Prentisstown, and
Ben apologizes, saying he and Cillian lied
to him only to protect him, but he didn’t
give a good reason as to why they kept the
truth hidden.
He then offers to help Todd and Viola escape.
Ben steps out, and Viola follows him.
Viola then starts walking to David before
disappearing.
Ben had fooled David, using his Noise to create
a manifestation of Viola.
Todd, Manchee, and Viola reach a river, but
Aaron catches up to them.
They get on a boat and start paddling away,
but Aaron takes his horse into the river,
getting closer.
They reach some river rapids, and Aaron manages
to gain on them.
He reaches the boat, pulling Viola into the
water, capsizing the boat.
Manchee and Viola are thrown off, and Todd
has to keep Viola afloat as she never learned
how to swim.
Todd and Viola reach the capsized boat, but
Todd sees Aaron has captured Manchee.
The preacher holds Manchee underwater, drowning
him.
Todd screams in anguish as he hears his beloved
Manchee’s whimpering gasps for air grow
weaker and weaker.
Todd and Viola wash up a fair distance away,
and Viola could hear Todd trying to hide his
Noise, filled with thoughts of Manchee.
They continue walking, and Todd swears he
would avenge Manchee.
The pair end up at a structure towering over
the forest, and Viola remembers seeing blueprints
of the structure back in her ship, saying
it's for a monorail track.
She then finds Todd sitting in silence, his
Noise manifesting a jolly Manchee jumping
up and down, happily barking and running the
fields.
Seeing Todd distraught over the loss of Manchee,
Viola sits next to him, saying she liked Manchee,
telling Todd Manchee was the best dog she
ever knew.
Todd jokingly replies Manchee was the only
dog she ever knew.
Viola then holds his hand, telling him he
is a good man.
She then playfully tells Todd she’s not
going to kiss him, alluring to Todd’s inner
thoughts manifesting earlier.
They continue walking and reach the remnants
of a massive ship.
Todd theorizes it must be the ship the first
wave of inhabitants used.
Viola then decides to go into the ship to
find a communication beacon to signal to the
second wave’s ship.
They climb into the vessel, and Viola finds
an emergency communication beacon.
She powers it up and initiates it, but the
antenna has been disconnected.
Todd decides to climb up and reattach the
antenna, but David sees him.
The Prentisstown men ride in, surrounding
the ship, and Todd successfully reattaches
the antenna.
The beacon is ready, but before Viola could
turn it on, Aaron suddenly shows up, pulling
Viola away.
At the same time, David calls Todd, threatening
to shoot Ben if he doesn’t reveal himself.
Meanwhile, Aaron has Viola pinned down, confessing
to her how he had killed so many women, showing
them no mercy.
The Noise had corrupted him, broken his mind.
Now, he wants Viola to kill him to purify
his sin.
Viola takes a firestarter device from her
pocket and throws it at Aaron, making him
burst into flames.
Aaron rejoices as he is being baptized in
fire.
He walks away, embracing his death.
Viola shakes off the confusion and turns the
beacon on.
Todd faces David outside, but Todd still hides
Viola's location.
David then shoots Ben.
Todd rushes to Ben, but Ben's injuries are
too great.
Ben pulls out a knife, handing it to Todd.
Todd then uses the distraction to attack David,
but David counters him.
Todd gets pushed off, tumbling down.
The beacon starts transmitting, and Todd runs
to hide, but David shoots him, hitting Todd's
chest.
Todd hides under a metal part of the ship
and sees David walking past.
He tries to grab David, but it was only an
illusion from David's Noise.
David then drags Todd, using his Noise to
confuse the boy.
Todd is pushed near a large deep opening,
and David holds him at gunpoint.
With the remaining strength he has, Todd uses
his Noise to create an illusion of his mother.
David sees Todd's mother and other women,
and he gets scared, backing himself towards
the edge.
Viola appears from behind the illusion with
a club, swinging it at David.
David catches the club, but Viola lets go,
causing David to fall over the edge.
Todd awakens inside the spaceship with his
wounds healed.
He and Viola stand by the ship’s window,
seeing the second wave of settlers have unloaded.
Todd and Viola hopefully watch as a new settlement
is built.